
INTRODUCTION

A rather short introduction to the Fit GUI


-=IF IN A HURRY=-

You want to fit basic functions (e.g., exponential) to your data in 1D, such as determining the decay of a time trace? The Fit GUI is the place to go. Select your dataset and 1D representation (via the "Display" panel), switch to the "Fit" panel, draw your fit areas, select the function to be fitted to the data, press "Fit", and hopefully you're done. The fitted values for the coefficients will be listed in their table, additional results below the main axis.


-=TO THE GENTLE READER=-

The Fit GUI is dedicated to the task of 1D data fitting, meaning that it allows you to fit a set of (standard) functions to a selected 1D representation of your data. Furthermore, it gives you plenty of control over the exact fit conditions, such as the areas to use for the fit, the fit functions, the behaviour of the fit method used, and the initial guesses of the coefficients used for fitting.

As fitting is rather an analysis than a data processing task, there is no means of applying whatever fit to the data and return that to the main GUI. Nevertheless, you can save the report generated by the fitting to a file, thus allowing you to save it to your other records of that particular dataset.

As data fitting is a rather complicated matter, this Fit GUI is designed with the standard cases in mind, such as fitting a decay of a time trace.

There is ideas to allow the user to fit arbitrary, user-defined 1D functions to the data. Furthermore, an additional idea would be to automatically integrate the "Matlab Optimization Toolbox", if it is available on the system.


GUI layout

Basically, the Fit GUI window is divided into three panels (1) that are all located to the right. You can switch between them with the buttons on the top or via shortcuts Ctrl-1 to Ctrl-3.

More details to all the different panels and the meaning of their control elements can be found in the respective help topic.


Normal operation

Normally, you simply go through the first two panels, "Display" and "Fit", first deciding about which dataset to use for fitting, and about the proper 1D representation. Then you draw the area the function should be fitted to, select a function (and method) to fit to the data, probably check the initial guesses for the coefficients, and then simply hit "Fit".

After you did that, you will see the result in the main axis, where you can inspect it in the ususal way. All controls for this can be found in the "Display" panel on the right.

The zoom function is started by pressing the button with the "+", directly below the slider right to the main axis. To stop zooming, simply press the zoom button (with the "+") again. If you want to reset the display, simply click once on the dataset in the dataset list.

Additionally, you will find a summary of the performed action in the "Results" panel below the main axis.


BTW: The button with the questionmark shows this help, as you might have figured out already.

(1) Yes, it's not only the ancient Gallia that was divided in three parts, as good old Gaius Julius told us... (apologies to those who don't get the joke)

