
PARAMETERS OF THE MEASUREMENT

This panel displays all the parameters of the dataset that are stored in the parameters structure of the current dataset.

Not every dataset has originally values for all the fields, and not every field is editable (especially, a few of the units for different fields are fixed).

Be especially careful with the fields marked accordingly, as changing their values might corrupt your dataset.

If you change some of the parameters in a way that would obviously corrupt your dataset, the respective fields get marked in red, and those parameters are not applied to the dataset.

Due to the wealth of parameters, the panel has been divided into several subpanels, called "pages" here. To switch between the pages, use the buttons on top.


SAMPLE

Information about the sample. With most raw data read in to the GUI, these fields will be empty. Nevertheless, the fields provide you with means to at least add the most important bits of information regarding the sample measured directly to the dataset.

Name - A rather short name of the sample that helps you recognising it. May well be "lab slang"

Tube - Description, i.e. dimensions, of the sample tube used (sometimes very important, e.g. to estimate noise levels)

Description - More comprehensive description of the sample. Multiline without fixed limit, but be aware of that this information gets stored along with the data, so please, no short stories...

Preparation - Details of the sample preparation. Multiline without fixed limit, but same limits as for the description apply.


GENERAL

General information about the current dataset.

Date - Date the data were recorded at. Use "yyyy-mm-dd" as format. If you really want to add time as well, the format of choice would "yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:SS".

Operator - The username/real name of the person recording the data. Currently, this is only determined automatically for Bruker BES3T files.

No. of runs - Number of runs, that is not the number of averages, but the number of complete runs (including the whole field sweep). Normally, this is only used in connection with fsc2.

Temperature - The temperature the actual experiment was performed at.


AXIS LABELS

Axis labels for all three axes. Normally, x is the time axis, y the field axis, and z the intensity.

For correct typesetting, all fields are split in "measure" and "unit" and get divided by a slash ("/") on display.


FIELD

Information about the magnetic field range over which the data were recorded.

Dimension - Dimension of the field axis in points. Read-only field to help when changing the next three fields.

Start - Position on the field axis where the field sweep started.

End - Position on the field axis where the field sweep ended.

Step - Stepping of the magnetic field axis.

Controller - Name/type of the field controller used, e.g. "Bruker BH-15".


Calibration start - Position of the field axis where the field sweep started, measured with an NMR gaussmeter.

Calibration end - Position of the field axis where the field sweep ended, measured with an NMR gaussmeter.

Gaussmeter - Name/Type of the gaussmeter used to record the field for the calibration, e.g. "Bruker ER035"


TRANSIENT

Information about the time traces (transients) the dataset consists of.

Dimension - Length of the time trace in points, read-only field.

Trigger pos. - Position of the trigger pulse within the time trace; in points.

Length - Length of the time trace in actual units; you can specify the unit as well.


BRIDGE

Information about the microwave bridge used to record the data and its settings.

Model - Name/type of the microwave bridge used, e.g. "Bruker ER 046 XK-T"

MW frequency - Microwave frequency the experiment was performed at.

Attenuation - Attenuation (in dB)

Power - Actual microwave power (as different MW bridges have different maximum power and therefore, the "attenuation" field is not sufficient).

Bandwidth - Bandwidth of the video amplifier in the MW bridge.

Amplification - Amplification in the video amplifier of the MW bridge.

Freq. @ start - Microwave frequency at the start of the experiment, read from a frequency counter.

Freq. @ end - Microwave frequency at the end of the experiment/current run, read from a frequency counter.


PROBEHEAD

Information about the probehead used to record the data.

Model - Name/type of the microwave probehead used, e.g. "Bruker ER 4118X-MD5".


RECORDER

Information about the transient recorder used to record the time traces.

Model - A string identifying the model of the transient recorder, e.g. "Tektronix TDS520A".

Averages - Number of averages

Coupling - Type of coupling of the transient recorder, usually one out of "AC"/"DC"/"GND".

Impedance - Impedance setting of the transient recorder used.

Time base - Time base of the transient recorder (oscilloscope) used to acquire the data. Normally, this is given as "per division".

Sensitivity - The sensitivity setting of the transient recorder (oscilloscope) used to acquire the data. Normally, this is given as "per division". 

Bandwidth - Bandwidth of the transient recorder (oscilloscope).


LASER

Information about the laser system used for the data acquisition.

Model - A string identifyling the model of the laser used, e.g. "Spectra Physics GCR-11".

OPO/Dye - A string identifying the model/type of the OPO/dye used to change the wavelength, e.g. "OPTA BBO-355-vis/IR".

Wavelength - The wavelength (in nm) used for the experiment.

Rep. rate - The repetition rate (in Hz) of the laser system used for the experiment.

Power - The laser power


