
INTRODUCTION

A rather short introduction to the ACC GUI


-=IF IN A HURRY=-

Given that you want to accumulate similar datasets and did not do any special things to them, the default settings should be fine. Select your datasets to accumulate, hit "Apply", inspect your results (using the display settings in the results panel), have a look at the proposed label for the accumulated data, and if everything is fine, "Close" the GUI and your accumulated data will be in the main GUI. If unhappy, "Discard" and try other settings, or "Discard" and "Close".

NOTE: The accumulated data gets written to the main GUI only when closing the ACC GUI (and only if you hit "Apply" before).


-=TO THE GENTLE READER=-

The accumulation (ACC) GUI is dedicated to the task of accumulating multiple datasets. Basically, it does not care about what data you want to accumulate, as long as they share at least a minimum amount of similar parameters and are of a format that the GUI recognises. It provides the user with the necessary controls to perform the accumulation itself. Whether it makes sense to perform the accumulation with the given set of data remains totally with the user.


GUI layout

Basically, the ACC GUI window is divided into three panels (1) that are all located to the right. You can switch between them with the buttons on the top or via shortcuts Ctrl-1 to Ctrl-3.

More details to all the different panels and the meaning of their control elements can be found in the respective help topic.


Normal operation

Normally, you simply go through the panels, first deciding about which datasets to accumulate, then checking the accumulation settings, the interpolation method, and then, after you have setup all things, you hit "Apply" to apply those parameters to the selected datasets and perform the actual accumulation.

After you did that, you will see the result in the main axis, where you can inspect it in the ususal way, as 2D or 1D plots, and for the latter at any position of the other axis, respectively. Of course, the latter only applies to the case where you have 2D data. All controls for this can be found in the "Results" panel on the right. 

Additionally, you will find a summary of the performed action in the "Report" panel below the axes.

If happy with the results, simply "Close" the GUI and your data will be written to the main GUI. If unhappy, hit "Discard" and either start a new round with different parameters or "Close" the GUI without writing back anything to the main GUI.


BTW: The button with the questionmark shows this help, as you might have figured out already.

(1) Yes, it's not only the ancient Gallia that was divided in three parts, as good old Gaius Julius told us... (apologies to those who don't get the joke)

