
Welcome to the new GUI of the trEPR toolbox.

NOTE: This message will only be displayed until you press one of the above buttons. But you can find it in the help panel via the "Help" button above.

The main goals of this redesign of the GUI were, besides improvements on the coding, a reduction in size so that it fits even to such small monitors as that of the smallest MacBook Pro with a resolution of only 1280x800 px.


HOW TO USE THE GUI?

A very brief introduction

1. Load data

The first step is to load one or more datasets. That can be done via the "load" panel that is accessed by pressing the "Load" button above.

2. Toggle visibility 

After loading one or more datasets from files, you need to make the data appear on the main axis to the left. Therefore, hit the "Datasets" button above that will give you all necessary control.

3. Sliders

You can scroll through a 2D dataset in both directions, you can scale the data in both dimensions and you can displace the data in two dimensions. Therefore, press the "Slider" button above that provides you with a convenient display of the current slider values in both data points and actual units of the axes.

4. Measure

One of the most natural things to do with a 2D or 1D dataset displayed is to measure distances between different points. This can be done with the "Measure" panel that will appear once you press the "Measure" button above.

5. Display

Once you succeeded in displaying the data in a meaningful way, you may want to either export the currently displayed data to a file (MATLAB fig, EPS, PDF, PNG, ...) or to modify the figure as a conventional MATLAB figure.

Furthermore, if the data you loaded do not contain the necessary information for the axis labels, you may want to correct or set them as well.

Either functionality is easily accessible: Just press the "Display" button.

6. Processing

For the advanced user, the "Processing" panel will provide all sorts of functions for data manipulation, such as accumulating different data sets. 

7. Analysis

To finally analyse your data, you might want to fit different functions to them, simulate data or perform deconvolutions. All those functions are grouped within and accessible from the "Analysis" panel.

